README.md, before:

php-druid-query
===============

PHP wrapper around querying [Druid](http://druid.io).

Overview
---------------

The wrapper lives in the namespace `DruidFamiliar`. Druid itself was named in the sprit of the D&D character, and that
character could have a familiar - a spiritually linked animal companion. This wrapper in a sense lives as a companion to
Druid, and thus the name.

It's kind of stupid. Feel free to suggest another. I think the repo name should reflect the namespace for clarity,
it currently is `php-druid-query` while the namespace is `DruidFamiliar`. :/


Typical Use
---------------

In general, this wrapper's purpose is to streamline the execution of queries by encapsulating the cruft from the `HTTP` nature of Druid and the analytical grammar in query configuration.

1. Instantiate a connection, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a parameterized query, configured with parameters.
3. Combine the connection and query to execute it, getting the result.

Interface wise, this looks like:

1. Instantiate a `IDruidConnection`, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a `IDruidQuery`, configured with parameters.
3. Run the `IDruidConnection`'s `executeQuery` function with the `IDruidQuery`, getting the result.

Implementation wise, this can look like:

1. Instantiate a `DruidNodeConnection`, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a `SegmentMetadataDruidQuery`, configured with parameters.
3. Run the `DruidNodeConnection`'s `executeQuery` function with the `SegmentMetadataDruidQuery`, getting the result.


How to Install
---------------

Right now, there is no tagged version.

- Stable branch: `dev-master`
- Cutting edge: `dev-develop`

To install, it is suggested to use [Composer](http://getcomposer.org). If you have it installed, then the following instructions
in a composer.json should be all you need to get started:

```json
{
    "minimum-stability": "dev",
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "git@github.com:r4j4h/php-druid-query"
        }
    ],
    "require": {
        "r4j4h/php-druid-query": "dev-master"
    }
}
```

Once that is in, `composer install` and `composer update` should work.

Once those are run, require Composer's autoloader and you are off to the races, or tree circles as it were (bad Druid reference):

1. `require 'vendor/autoload.php';`
2. `$yay = new \DruidFamiliar\TimeBoundaryDruidQuery('my-cool-data-source');`
3. Refer to the `Typical Use` section above.



How it Works & How to Extend
---------------

Please refer to this diagram for an overview of how this works underneath the hood.

![Sequence Diagram](docs/sequence-diagram.png)

(From this [Dynamic LucidChart Source URL](https://www.lucidchart.com/publicSegments/view/540e3dcd-372c-4aa6-a52c-44d80a005fd1/image.png))

In general, to add support for a new query all you need to do is create a new class wherever you want that implements `IDruidQuery`.

By wherever you want, that could be in a fork of this repo, or outside of this repo using this repo's interfaces. That is up to you. :)




References
---------------

- [Druid](http://druid.io)
- [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
- [Guzzle](http://guzzle.readthedocs.org)

Commit message:

Adding a bit in the README about the examples folder

README.md, after:

php-druid-query
===============

PHP wrapper around querying [Druid](http://druid.io).

Overview
---------------

The wrapper lives in the namespace `DruidFamiliar`. Druid itself was named in the sprit of the D&D character, and that
character could have a familiar - a spiritually linked animal companion. This wrapper in a sense lives as a companion to
Druid, and thus the name.

It's kind of stupid. Feel free to suggest another. I think the repo name should reflect the namespace for clarity,
it currently is `php-druid-query` while the namespace is `DruidFamiliar`. :/


Typical Use
---------------

In general, this wrapper's purpose is to streamline the execution of queries by encapsulating the cruft from the `HTTP` nature of Druid and the analytical grammar in query configuration.

1. Instantiate a connection, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a parameterized query, configured with parameters.
3. Combine the connection and query to execute it, getting the result.

Interface wise, this looks like:

1. Instantiate a `IDruidConnection`, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a `IDruidQuery`, configured with parameters.
3. Run the `IDruidConnection`'s `executeQuery` function with the `IDruidQuery`, getting the result.

Implementation wise, this can look like:

1. Instantiate a `DruidNodeConnection`, configured to hit a Druid endpoint.
2. Instantiate a `SegmentMetadataDruidQuery`, configured with parameters.
3. Run the `DruidNodeConnection`'s `executeQuery` function with the `SegmentMetadataDruidQuery`, getting the result.


How to Install
---------------

Right now, there is no tagged version.

- Stable branch: `dev-master`
- Cutting edge: `dev-develop`

To install, it is suggested to use [Composer](http://getcomposer.org). If you have it installed, then the following instructions
in a composer.json should be all you need to get started:

```json
{
    "minimum-stability": "dev",
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "git@github.com:r4j4h/php-druid-query"
        }
    ],
    "require": {
        "r4j4h/php-druid-query": "dev-master"
    }
}
```

Once that is in, `composer install` and `composer update` should work.

Once those are run, require Composer's autoloader and you are off to the races, or tree circles as it were (bad Druid reference):

1. `require 'vendor/autoload.php';`
2. `$yay = new \DruidFamiliar\TimeBoundaryDruidQuery('my-cool-data-source');`
3. Refer to the `Typical Use` section above.


Examples
---------------

See the `\examples` folder. Right now they are all run via the CLI. They share connection information from
`_examples-config.php`. Change that match your Druid instance's connection info.



How it Works & How to Extend
---------------

Please refer to this diagram for an overview of how this works underneath the hood.

![Sequence Diagram](docs/sequence-diagram.png)

(From this [Dynamic LucidChart Source URL](https://www.lucidchart.com/publicSegments/view/540e3dcd-372c-4aa6-a52c-44d80a005fd1/image.png))

In general, to add support for a new query all you need to do is create a new class wherever you want that implements `IDruidQuery`.

By wherever you want, that could be in a fork of this repo, or outside of this repo using this repo's interfaces. That is up to you. :)




References
---------------

- [Druid](http://druid.io)
- [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
- [Guzzle](http://guzzle.readthedocs.org)
